Place for all the Guides + Notes regarding Web Design

Web design vs development: design-> create overall look and feel of website
developer-> implement design using html, css and js code

Good vs Bad Design

Good: 
-Creates an immediate and lasting good impression of the brand or product
-Makes the user trust the brand right away
-Increases the user's perceived value of the brand or product
-Gives users exactly what they were looking for when coming to the side, e.g. purchasing a product
 or finding information.


Bad: 
-Makes users believe the brand doesn't really care about their product or service;
-Makes the user insecure about trusting the brand
-Makes the brand or product seem "cheap"
-Leaves users confused, and it makes hard to for them to reach their goal


Main design pillars: 
1: Typography
2: Colors
3: Images/Illustrations
4: Icons
5: Shadows
6: Border-radius
7: Whitespace
8: Visual Hierarchy
9: User Experience
10: Componenets/Layouts

Types of Website Personalities:

1: Serious/Elegant: For luxury and elegance, based on thin serif typefaces, 
  golde or pastel colors, and big high-quality images.
2: Minimalist/Simple: Focuses on the essential text content, using small or 
  medium-sized sans-serif black text, lines, and few images and icons.
3: Plain/Neutral: Design that gets out of the way by using neutral and small typefaces,
  and very structured layout. Common for big corporations
4: Bold/Confident: Makes and impact, by featuring big and bold typography, paired with
  confident use of big and bright colored blocks.
5: Calm/Peaceful: For products or services that care, transmitted by calming
  pastel colors, soft serif headings, and matching images/Illustrations.
6: Startup/Upbeat: Widely used in startups, featuring medium-sized sans-serif typefaces, 
  light-grey text and backgrounds, and rounded elements.
7: Playful/Fun: Colorful and round designs, fueled by creative elements like 
  hand-drawn icons or Illustrations, animations, and fun language.



Typography

Definition- the art and technique of aranging type to make written language 
  legible, readable and appealing when displayed.

Serif vs Sans-serif

Serif: 
Creates a traditional/classic look and feel. 
Conveys trustworthyness. 
Good for long text.

Sans-serif:
Modern look and feel
Clean and Simple
Easer to choose for beginner designer

Typefaces:
(Can be taken from Google Fonts)
1: Use only good and popular typefaces and play it safe
  Sans-serif: Inter, Open Sans, Roboto, Montserrat, Work Sans Lato
  Serif: Merriweather, Aleo, Playfair Display, Cormorant, Cardo, Lora
2: Its completely OK to use just one typeface per page! If you want more, limit to 2 typefaces.
3: Choose the right typeface according to your website personality

Font-Sizes and Weights:
When choosing font-sizes, limit choices! Use a "type scale" or other pre-defined range
Use a font-size between 16px and 32px for normal text.
For long text(like a blog post), try size of 20px or even bigger
For headlines, you can go really big (50px+) and bold (600+) depending on personality
For any text, dont use a font weight under 400 (regular)

Create a good reading experience:
Use less than 75 characters per lines
For normal-sized text, use a line height between 1.5 and 2. For big text go below 1,5
(The smaller and longer the text, the larger the line height needs to be!)
Decrease letter spacing in headlines, if it looks unnatural
Experiment with all caps for short titles, Make them small and bold to increase letter-spacing
Usually, dont justify text.
Dont center long text blocks. Small blocks are fine.

Colors: 
Color Theory goes in-depth in that avenue.


1: Make sure that the main color match your website's personality.
  Red- draws attention, symbolizes power, passion and excitement
  Orange- less agressive, conveys happiness, cheerfulness and creativity
  Yellow- means joy, brightness and ingeligence
  Green- harmony, nature, growth and health
  Blue- peace, trustworthyness and profesionalism
  Purple- wealth, wisdom and magic
  Pink- romance, care, affection
  Brown- associated with nature, durability and comfort
  Black- symbolizes power, elegance and minimalism, but also grief and sorrow

2:Use a good color tone! Didn't choose a random tone or css named colors.
  Open Color can be used as tool for picking colors.
  Tailwindcss
  Flat UI colors 2

3: Establish a color system- you need at least 2 types of color in your color palette: 
  a main color and a grey color(it doesnt have to be grey-> can be a really dark version of a color).

4: With more experience, you an add more colors: accent colors (can be obtained by a tool )
5: For diversity, create a lighter and darker versions(tints(lighter) and shades(darker))
  pallenton.com, coolors, tint and shade generators
6: Use your main color to draw attention to the most important elements on the page.
7: Use colors to add interesting accents or ake entire components or sections standout.
8: You can try to use color strategically in image and Illustrations

Colors and typography;
On dark colored backgrounds, try to use a tint of the background("lighter version") for text
Text should usually NOT be completely black. Lighten if it looks heavy and uninviting
Dont make text too light! Use a tool to check contrast between text and background colors (Coolors-> Contrast ratio tool)
 -Contrast ratio needs to be at least 4.5:1 for normal text and 3:1 for large text(18px+)


Images

Different types of images: product photos, storytelling photos, illustartions, patterns

Use images to support your website's message and story. Use relevant images! 

Prefer original images. If not possible, use-original looking stock images(not generic ones!)

Free images- Unsplash 

Try to show real peole to trigger user's emotions

If necessary, crop images to fit your message.

Experiment combining photos, illustartions and patterns

Handling text on images: 
  Method 1: Darker or brighten image (completely or partially, using a gradient)
  Method 2: Position text into neutral image area
  Method 3: Put text in a box(especially if you add opacity of the box)

Need to account for high-res screens, make image dimensions 2x as big as their displayed size(2x times scale factor)

Compress image for a lower file size and better performance- tool-> Squoosh to reduce size of images

When using multiple images side-by-side, make sure they have EXACT SAME DIMENSIONS.

Icons: 

Use a good icon pack, there are tons of free and paid icons packs:
  Phosphor icons, ionicons,icons8

Use only ONE icon pack. Dont mix icons from different icon packs

Use SVG icons or Icon fonts. Dont use bitap formats(jpg and png)
  -BITAP images- JPG, PNG, GIF- Do not scale and become unsharp
  -Vecror-based images- SVG images and icon fonts-> Scale indefinetely

Icons needs to adjust to your website's personality- Roundness, weight and filled/outlined depend on typography

Use icons to provide visiual asistance to text

Use icons for product feature blocks

Use icons associated with actions, and label them (unless no space or icon is 100% clear)

Use icon as bullet points.

To keep icons neutral, use the same color as text, To draw more attention, use different color

Don't confuse your users: icons need to make sense and fit the text or action.

Don't make icons larger than what they were designed for. If needed, enclose them in a shape.


Shadows

Shadows creates depth(3d)- the more the shadow the further away from the interface the element is.
Shadows can be used on boxes and on text.

You dont have to use shadows! only use them if it makes sense for the website personality.
( Serious/Elegant(less shadows) -------> Playful/Fun(More shadows)) 

Use shadows in small doses: don't add shadows to every element.

Go light on shadows, dont make them too dark.

Use small shadows for smaller elements that should stand out(to draw attention)

Use medium-sized shadows for larger areas that should stand out a bit more.
(cards that stand out in the interface)

Use large shadows for elements taht should realy float above the interface(nacigations->popup)

Experiment with changing shadows on mouse interaction (click and hover)

Can experiment with glows(colored shadows).



Border-radius

Border-radius is used to increase the playfulness and fun of the design, to make it less Serious

Typefaces have a certain roundness, make sure that the border-radius matches that roundness.

Use border-radius on buttons, images, around icons, standout sections and other elements.



Whitespace: 

Its the space between elements. The right amount makes design look clean, modern and polished.
Whitespace communicates how different pieces of information are related to one another.
It implies invisible relationships between the elements of a layout. 

Tips for whitespace:
Use tons of whitespace between sections.
Use a lot of whitespace between groups of elements.
Use whitespace between elements.
Inside group of elements, try to use whitespace instead of lines

The more some elements (or group of elements) belond together, the closer they should be! 
(The law of proximity)


Start with a lot of whitespace, maybe even too much. Then remove whitespace from there.

Try to match other design chices, If you have big text or big icons, you need more whitespace. 

Try a hard rule, such as using multiples of 16px for all spacing (same idea as limiting font choices)



Visiual Hierarchy: 
-is all about establishing which elements of a design are the most important ones. 
-is about drawing attention to these most important elements.
-defining a path for users to gte them through the page
-we can use a combination of position, size, colors, spacing, borders and shadows to estabish a meaningfu visual 
  hierarchy between elements/componenets.


Visual Hierarchy Fundamentals: 
1- Position important elements closer to the top of the page, where they get more attention.
2- Use images mindfully, as the draw a lot of attention (larger images get more attention)
3- Whitespace creates separation, so use whitespace strategically to emphasize elements.

Visiual Hierarchy for text elements
1- For elements use font-size, font weight, color and whitespace to convey importance.
2- Elements to emphasize? - Titles, sub-titles, links, buttons, data points, icons
  De-emphasize-> less important text, like labels or secondary/additional information

Visual hierarchy between componenets:
1-emphasize an important component using background color, shadow or border(or multiple)
2- Try emphasizing some component A over componennt B by de-emphasizing component B.
3- What types of components to emphasize? 
  -Testimonials, call-to-action sections, highlight sections, preview cards, forms, pricing tables, important rows/columns in tables.


USER EXPERIENCE (UX)

"Design is not just hat it looks like and feels like. Design is how it works"- Steve Jobs

UI- User interface is the visual presenation of a product. ITs how the graphical interface looks and feels like.
  -Layout
  -"personality"
  -Typography, colors, icons, etc.

UX- User experience is the experience overall experience the user has while interacting with the product. 
  -Does the app feel logical and well thought out? 
  -Does the navigation work intuitevely?
  -Are users reaching their goals? 

UX design-> ux design is what makes the interface useful and functional
UI design-> ui design is what makes an interface beautiful
(both make completely different experiences for the user)

UX design guilding principle: goals
-Exists for a reason, the user has a goal visiting.

Practial guidelines: 
-Dont design complicated layouts. Dont reinvent the wheel. Use patterns that users know.
-Make your call-to-action- the most prominent element, and make the text descriptive.
-Use blue text and underlined text onl for links.
-Animations should have a purpose and be fast: between 200 and 500 miliseconds
-In forms, align labels and fields in a single verticle line, to make the form easier to scan.
-Offer users good feedback for all actions: form errors. form success etc.
-Law of locality: Place action buttons where they will create an effect.(for web apps)


UX rules for website content:
-Use a descriptive, keyword-focused headline on your main page. Dont be vague or fancy!
-Only include relevant information, efficiently. Cut out fluff and make the content 100% clear.
-Use simple words! Avoid technical jargon and smart-sounding words.
-Break up long text with sub-headings, images, block quotes, bullet points, etc.


Website-personalities-framework:

How do you want the website to appear to users? What vibe do you want to transmit?
-Choose one of the website personalities and apply to it. 
*more info in the local pdf*


Continuation in guidenotes in Components folder.