Prorocess behind building a website:
1.Define
2.Plan
3.Sketch
4.Design and building
5.Test and optimize
6.Launch
7.Maintain and update

1.Define the project: 
Define WHO the website is for. Is it for yourself? For a client of your agency or your freelancing business?
Define WHAT is the website for. In order words, define business and user goals of your website project.
Define a target audience. Be really specific if possible and if it makes sense for your website.

2.Plan the project: 
Plan and gather website content: copy(text), images, videos etc.
Content is usually provided by the client, but you can help them produce and find some content. (simply finding free images is easiers, but if they want copy, charge them extra)
For bigger websites, plan out sitemap: what pages site needs, and how they are related to one another
Based on the content, plan what sections each page needs in order to convey the content's message and in which order.
Define the website personality(web design section)

3.Sketch layout and component ideas.
Think about what components you need and how you can use them in layout patterns.
Ger ideas out of your head(sketch with pen and paper or Figma)
This is iterative process; experient ith different components and layouts, until you arrive at a first good solution.
You dont need to sketch everything, and dont't make it perfect. At some point you can jump in html and css

4.Design and build website
Use decisions, content and sketches from step-1-23- to design and build website with html and css.
You already have the layout and components that you selected you need to design the actual visual styles
Create the design based on the selected website personality, the design guidelines  and inspiration.
Ue the client's branding for design decisions whenever possible, colors, typography, icons.

5.Test and optimize
Make sure the website works in all major browsers
Test the website on actual mobile devices, not in just DevTools
Optimize all image in terms of dimensions and file size
Fix simple accessibility problems(color contrast)
Run Lighthouse(perfomance test in DevTools and try to fix reported issues)
Think about Serch Engine optimization(SEO)

6.Launch the masterpiece
Once all work is done, everything is perfect after the approval of client, upload it to hosting platform , buy domain name.

7.Maitain and keep updating website.
Keep website content updated over time(possible reccurring revenue)
Install analytics software(google analytics) to get statics to infrom future changes
A blog that is updated regularly is a good way to keep users coming back as well for SEO.


 -------------OMNIFOOD----------------------
 1.Define:
 Who? Client.
 What?: Business goal-selling monthly food subscription
        User goal-> eating well effortlessly, without spending a lot of time and money.
Target audience:
Busy people who like technology, are interested in a healthy diet and have well-paying job.

2.PLan the project
Provided with content.
-Plan out sitemap: One-page marketing website(landing page, no need for sitemap)
Website personality: startup/upbear + elements of calm/peaceful(consumer wellbeing)
Planning based on the content. The content GUIDES the sections and layout

########

## sections
-Logo + Navigation
-Hero
-Featured in 
-How it works
-Meals_ AND list of diets
-Testimonials + gallery
-Pricing + features
-CTA (call to action)
-Footer

####

Responsive Web Design- 
Essentially is a design technique to make webpage adjust its layout and visual style to any possible screen size
(window or viewport size)

In practice this practice website usable on all devices. Its not a separate technology, its set 
of best practices and technique of CSS. 
Four parts: 
1-Fluid Layouts: 

To allow webpage to adapt to the current viewport width( or even height)
Use % (or vh vw ) unit instead of px for elements that should adapt to viewport(usually layout)
Use max-width instead of width. 

2- Responsive units

Use rem unit instead of px for most lengths
To make it easy to scale the entire layout down or up automatically
Helpful- trick: setting 1 rem to 10px for easy calculations

3- Flexible images
By default, image don't scale automatically as we change the viewport, so we need to fix that
Always use % for image dimensions, together with the max-width property

4-Media queries
Bring responsive sites to life
To change CSS styles on certain viewport widths(called breakpoints)

2 different strategies for making web-design 

Dekstop first vs mobile-first development

Desktop first: 
-Start writing CSS for dekstop: Large screen
-Then media queries shrink design into smaller screens

Mobile first: 
-Start with css for small screens
-Then media queries expand to large screen 
-Forces us to reduce website and apps to absolute essentials


Responsive web design
How media queries work (with max-width)

@media (max-width: 600px)-> cheqs  is if the current Viewport is 600px or not. 
600px is the maximum width at which media query still applies.
At 700px the code stops working. 
Media queries are like tools that overwrite certain CSS properties at certain viewport width. 

We can have multiple media queries: 
@media(max-width:600px)
@media(max-width:1200px) (covers the 600 and then on top 600 more)

Ex. if there is a phone with viewport of 400px, CSS in BOTH media queries applies.
-if there is conflicts- The one that appears last -APPLIES! 

-If we have a tablet with max with of 1000px (only the 1200px applies)

Breakpoints: 
Breakpoint? 
Breakpoint is the viewport width at which we want our design to change. 
(the pixel values that we want to put in our media queries)
- Best practice will be to be vase on screen width ranges 
Phones: 300px >500px 
Big Phones >600px-900px
Tablets/small laptops0 > 900px-1100px
Laptops/Desktops >1200px 

Put breakpoints when the design looks weird without looking at device size. 
Best used to set up  breakpoints like thata + phone sizes. 